Forvocl is a command-line tool for accessing the API provided by [Forvo](http://forvo.com/). Using forvocl you can list, play back, get information on, and save audio pronunciations contributed by users of the site.

* [1 Requirements](#requirements)
* [2 Usage](#usage)
  * [2.1 Searching and playback](#searching-and-playback)
  * [2.2 Options](#options)
  * [2.3 Audio format](#audio-format)
  * [2.4 Saving audio files to disk](#saving-audio-files-to-disk)
* [3 Credits](#credits)
* [4 License](#license)

# Requirements
* mplayer
* a Forvo API key

# Usage
Using the `forvocl.rb` script you can look up and play back audio pronunciations from [Forvo](http://forvo.com/). This requires registering for a [Forvo API key](http://api.forvo.com/), which is free for non-commercial educational use.

Once you have a key, you just need to copy it into your forvocl config file in your user home directory (i.e. `~/.config/forvocl/config.yml`) under the section "forvo key". Uncomment the line `# :forvo_key: ""` and add your key between the quotation marks `""`. Now you can look up pronunciations by running `forvocl.rb`.

## Searching and playback
Forvocl has both interactive and non-interactive lookup modes. If run without any command-line arguments, it will prompt for a [language code](http://www.forvo.com/languages-codes/) and a word to pronounce. You can find a full list of the supported codes [here](http://www.forvo.com/languages-codes/).

You can skip the prompts by supplying the language code and word to be pronounced as arguments when running `forvocl.rb`, in the form `ruby forvocl.rb [lang_code] [word_to_be_pronounced]`. For example, if you wanted to find the pronounciation of the word "сегодня" in Russian, you would enter:

    ruby forvocl.rb ru сегодня

The last argument should probably be in quotes to avoid problems -- this also allows for pronunciation of phrases and other terms with spaces:

    ruby forvocl.rb sv "Johannes Robert Rydberg"

The script will let you know how many pronunciations were found and print out a numbered list (example below):

* command: `ruby forvocl.rb zh 发音`

* output:
```
4 pronunciations found for "发音" in zh:

  1. by Gliese (f from China)           0 [+1 -1]
  2. by witenglish (m from China)       0 [+0 0]
  3. by cloudrainner (m from China)     0 [+0 0]
  4. by JuliaWu (f from China)          0 [+0 0]


Select a number to hear the corresponding pronunciation, or press "a" to hear all available pronunciations.
```

To hear any of the listed pronunciations just enter the corresponding number and it will start playing automatically. If you press "a", all of the pronunciations will play in order. The numbers to the far right are the user rating that each pronunciation has received, in the format `rating [+upvotes -downvotes]`.

## Options
The Forvo script has a number of options that can be supplied at the command-line:

* `-m`, `--mp3` (_Use mp3 format instead of ogg_)
* `-l`, `--list` (_List all pronunciations_)
* `-u`, `--urls` (_Print a list of audio urls_)
* `-a`, `--play-all` (_Play back all pronunciations without interaction_)
* `-s`, `--save` (_Save all audio files to disk_)

Many of these options can be combined, for example:

`ruby forvocl.rb -lum en photogrammetry` (_Lookup the word "photogrammetry" and produce a list of pronunciations and urls in mp3 format_)

If you want to skip all interaction entirely and just play each audio result automatically, use the `-a` option and supply the language code and lookup terms on the command-line, e.g.:

    ruby forvocl.rb -a fr prononciation

## Audio format
By default, forvocl plays back and saves audio files in ogg format. If you want to switch to using mp3 format, just use the `-m` option.

## Saving audio files to disk
Once you have finished listening to the audio, forvocl will prompt you to enter a number from the list of available pronunciations to save the file to disk. If you don't want to save any of the audio, just press any other key to quit. To save all of the available audio files, use the `-s` option.

# Issues
If you get the following error when playing back audio: `mplayer: could not connect to socket`, it just means that you need to disable LIRC support in mplayer. You can do this quite easily by editing or creating the file `~/.mplayer/config` and adding the line:

            nolirc=yes

# Credits
This script was originally part of the [gdcl](https://github.com/dohliam/gdcl) command-line dictionary project.

Table of contents generated by [tocdown](https://github.com/dohliam/tocdown).

# License
MIT license -- see LICENSE file for details.

The audio pronunciations on forvo are licensed [cc-by-nc-sa](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/deed.en_GB).
